We will start with the first class
in which we will learn to use the
business model canvas, the tool
I have talked about, which
in Spanish, translated into Spanish,
is a canvas of business models.
We will usually give it canvas,
from now on we will use
this term.
I like to describe canvas as
a tool that allows us to
understand the mechanism, right?
How to fit the parts in a business
model.
The structure of the Business Model
is composed of nine blocks, which
are the nine main blocks of
a business model.
Then, what we do is fill
each of the blocks and in that
way we draw a business
model.
I want you to be aware that canvas
not only allows us to draw
or describe a business model,
but that what we will do
is, from that description,
we analyze it.
And once we’ve got certain
ideas, we’ll use an evolution
or innovation, the generation
of a new business model,
right?
Today, what we’re going to
do is draw a business model,
learn to describe it.
And when we talk about drawing,
we use this concept because the
canvas is usually drawn, it is
used as a canvas on which
you paint.
Well, today we will see, I will explain
it from the case of Mango, the
Spanish clothing manufacturer
and retailer that has
expanded internationally.
Why did I use this example?
Well, because I think it’
s a company that we all
quickly get a little idea of,
right?
Well let us start.
We start with the nine blocks of
the business model.
Every business model should
always start from the knowledge
of who our customers are and
we have the first block called
customer segments.
In this case, what we will
identify is who we are targeting,
which customer segments
we are creating value.
There is no point in making a
micro-segmentation of ages,
sexes, geography and so on.
It is really a high-level analysis,
that is, what are the different
customer segments to which
we really offer tailored
value proposals or address
through different channels,
right?
I don’t know if you understand the difference.
Really, to consider it a separate
customer segment, the criterion
is that, we offer it, that
it is a group to which we offer
something different to others.
And I think in a company like Mango,
in principle, we have men,
women and children.
If you think about it inside the
points of sale, there are spaces
adapted for each of them.
The products that are created
for each segment are different, etc.
I think that would be the main segmentation.
Once we already know who we are addressing,
we already know who we are addressing,
the next thing is to analyze
what we offer them and
we have the block called
product and service offer.
Some people give you a value proposal.
But the question is what?
What do we offer?
Is it worth?
In the case of Mango,
what Mango offers is mainly
clothing.
We could say that it is clothes for
men, for women and for children.
We could differentiate.
And we could add some value, such
as design clothes at affordable
prices, for example.
But well, I think it’s easy
to grasp what it is, what’s going
inside proposed products and services.
The following.
We know who we are, we know
what we offer.
The next is the distribution channel.
How did we get to them?
What are the means we
use so that customers know
us, convince them, buy us,
buy us, provide them
with after-sales service, etc.
And in the case of Mango,
mainly, are the points of sale to
the stores and, in addition, the
website.
We could do a bit more analytical
and identify that Mango has a direct
channel, that they are point
of sale or indirect channel, that they
would be franchises, right?
The next block is the relationship
with customers.
That is, I think it’s the hardest block
to understand and there are people
who use it in a different way.
But basically what you need to
do is explain or describe how
our relationships with
customers are.
That they are personal or are produced
through, or are digital, are
close or not.
Well, it’s a matter of explaining it, right?
It is something that is really valuable.
Because customer relationships
are determinants of many
things in a business model.
In the case of Mango, we could
say that the main relationship occurs
at the point of sale with the sellers,
but then there are more touch
points.
For example, clothes, once you have
bought them, you have some interaction
with the permanent brand
and, well, then the brand,
I think you can establish
in some case, in the case of
fashion, for example, certain
relations of loyalty.
Well, we already know who we sell
it to, we already know what we
sell it to, we already know how we will
get to them.
But all this has a goal and is to
generate income.
And we have the revenue flow
block in which we will
describe how those revenue flows are.
Not if we earn a lot of money or a little
money, but in what format.
We will see it in detail in one of
the classes.
For it can be by selling products,
it can be by selling services,
it can be by recurring services
in subscription, it can be rentals,
it can be licenses,
right?
In the case of mango, it is very simple.
The model is very simple.
They just sell clothes.
If we think, for example,
of Amazon, imagine the different
revenue flows it has.
Intermediacy in products on the
marketplace or sale of products
in e-commerce or subscription
quotas, etc.
Now, we go to the left
block.
In the block on the left, what
we’re going to identify is what
we need to offer that value
proposal to those customers.
We need resources, we
need key activities, we
need to establish alliances,
right?
It is a different concept.
And we will start with the
resources, which is something
very important that we will also
analyze in detail in this course
of business models.
The resources we have to
answer the following question.
What are the assets, whether
material, intangible, human,
intellectual, that we need for
this business model to work?
In the case of Mango,
it primarily needs to have a large
capillary of points of sale, it
needs to have a very powerful
brand and also needs to have
a lot of stock within those points
of sale.
The stock is to imagine
the financial resources you also
have to have to have permanently
funded a stock that is
worth hundreds of millions
at all points of sale.
In order to offer that value proposition,
in addition to resources, we
need to be good at some things
or we need to focus on certain
key activities.
There are business models that
require you to be very good, because in
I plus D or that you are very
efficient or that you are very good in
the relationship with customers.
Well, it depends on the business
model, but it’s very good to do this
analysis.
In the case of Mango, I think
that Mango has to focus on
all the parts of purchases,
the management of suppliers,
etc., with suppliers
all over the world.
It has to focus on the design, to always
have permanent collections that are
attractive, it is another of
the key activities and also
the management of the distribution
channel, of that distribution channel
we have talked about, because it
is something that requires a
lot of attention and a lot
of focus.
It is something vital.
Now let’s go to the alliances.
Any business model to be able to
offer that value proposal, as we
said, to those customers, in
addition to resources and key activities,
is convenient that it is supported
by third companies with which
it develops relationships more
or less stable, but that help
it to offer everything else,
right?
Usually here the main
suppliers are usually incorporated
into this analysis.
These are third companies that are
really important in the business
model.
I in the case of Mango would say that,
in addition to the suppliers, I could
incorporate the franchisees, who
are entrepreneurs who are part
of the distribution channel, but
who are true alliances, true,
yes, true alliances, strategic
alliances because they are
very important for Mango.
Well, and from all this, those
resources, those activities,
etc., will generate costs for
us and we must be able to identify
what the main costs are,
describe them as they
are.
They are fixed, they are variable,
they are produced, they
are produced mainly due to
wages or the purchase of assets, etc.
We have to do an analysis without
much detail and at a high level, that
that in the end are the analyses that
allow us to identify or draw more
valuable conclusions, right?
In the case of a company like
Mango, I think that the variable
cost for all the goods sold is
very important and the fixed
cost of structure you have,
then, at the points of sale
and also all the staff.
It would be the two
main games, right?
Well, since we’ve already seen
the nine Business Model Canvas
blocks, we’ve seen how they fit
and what you have to do is
get familiar with this.
It’s likely today, that we’ve seen
them all very quickly, as you
haven’t been able to remember
them all, but don’t worry because
we’re going to use this tool to
analyze many cases in the
coming days, the coming weeks.
Then you will be gradually assimilating
it, but I hope to have transmitted
the value of being able to
draw in such a simple
way and have intuitive
any business model.
One of the things I love and
will see is that when we
analyze success cases, when
we analyze innovations,
etc., at the end always.
You can draw on the canvas,
you can always explain it in this
way, always the pieces fit, right?
I think that’s one of the
key reasons why this
tool has been so successful.